[tune] New Doc edits, add Concepts page (#8083)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/tune/guides/plot_tune-usage.rst

.. _tune-user-guide:

Tune User Guide
===============

.. warning:: Before you continue, be sure to have read :ref:`tune-60-seconds`.

> This document overviews features and different configurations of Tune.

Reviewer: This document provides an overview of the core concepts as well as some of the configurations for Tune Runs.

Author: ```suggestion
This document provides an overview of the core concepts as well as some of the configurations for running Tune.
```

    tune.run(trainable, num_samples=10, resources_per_trial={"cpu": 0.5})

To leverage GPUs, you must set ``gpu`` in ``resources_per_trial``. This will automatically set ``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES`` for each trial.

.. code-block:: python

    # If you have 8 GPUs, this will run 8 trials at once.
    tune.run(trainable, num_samples=10, resources_per_trial={"gpu": 1})

    # If you have 4 CPUs on your machine and 1 GPU, this will run 1 trial at a time.
    tune.run(trainable, num_samples=10, resources_per_trial={"cpu": 2, "gpu": 1})

You can find an example of this in the `Keras MNIST example <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/python/ray/tune/examples/tune_mnist_keras.py>`__.

.. warning:: If 'gpu' is not set, ``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES`` environment variable will be set as empty, disallowing GPU access.

To attach to a Ray cluster, simply run ``ray.init`` before ``tune.run``:

.. code-block:: python

    # Connect to an existing distributed Ray cluster
    ray.init(address=<ray_address>)
    tune.run(trainable, num_samples=100, resources_per_trial={"cpu": 2, "gpu": 1})

Search Space (Grid/Random)
--------------------------

> .. warning:: If you use a Search Algorithm, you may not be able to specify lambdas or grid search with this

Reviewer: this warning isn't clear to me.

Reviewer: what do you mean by lambdas?

.. code-block:: python

    parameters = {
        "qux": tune.sample_from(lambda spec: 2 + 2),
        "bar": tune.grid_search([True, False]),
        "foo": tune.grid_search([1, 2, 3]),
        "baz": "asd",  # a constant value
    }

    tune.run(trainable, config=parameters)

By default, each random variable and grid search point is sampled once. To take multiple random samples, add ``num_samples: N`` to the experiment config. If `grid_search` is provided as an argument, the grid will be repeated `num_samples` of times.

.. code-block:: python
   :emphasize-lines: 13

    # num_samples=10 repeats the 3x3 grid search 10 times, for a total of 90 trials
    tune.run(
        my_trainable,
        name="my_trainable",
        config={
            "alpha": tune.uniform(100),
            "beta": tune.sample_from(lambda spec: spec.config.alpha * np.random.normal()),
            "nn_layers": [
                tune.grid_search([16, 64, 256]),
                tune.grid_search([16, 64, 256]),
            ],
        },
        num_samples=10
    )

Read about this in the :ref:`Grid/Random Search API <tune-grid-random>` page.

> Metrics (Auto-Filled Results)

Reviewer: This section title is a little unclear, what is someone doing with these? Why is it important to know?

.. code-block:: python

    def stopper(trial_id, result):
        return result["mean_accuracy"] / result["training_iteration"] > 5

    tune.run(my_trainable, stop=stopper)

Finally, you can implement the ``Stopper`` abstract class for stopping entire experiments. For example, the following example stops all trials after the criteria is fulfilled by any individual trial, and prevents new ones from starting:

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.tune import Stopper

    class CustomStopper(Stopper):
        def __init__(self):
            self.should_stop = False

        def __call__(self, trial_id, result):
            if not self.should_stop and result['foo'] > 10:
                self.should_stop = True
            return self.should_stop

        def stop_all(self):
            """Returns whether to stop trials and prevent new ones from starting."""
            return self.should_stop

    stopper = CustomStopper()
    tune.run(my_trainable, stop=stopper)

Note that in the above example the currently running trials will not stop immediately but will do so once their current iterations are complete. See the :ref:`tune-stop-ref` documentation.

> Logging/Tensorboard

Reviewer: How is this different from the logging page?

Author: I wanted to have a section that "previews"/points to the logging page. The logging page is "thick reference material", while this 'usage guide' is more of an overview/tldr.

    | MyTrainable_a826033a | RUNNING  | 10.234.98.164:31115 | 0.303706  | 0.0761 | 0.1289 |        7.54952 |    15 |
    | MyTrainable_a8263fc6 | RUNNING  | 10.234.98.164:31117 | 0.929276  | 0.158  | 0.4865 |        7.0501  |    14 |
    | MyTrainable_a8267914 | RUNNING  | 10.234.98.164:31111 | 0.068426  | 0.0319 | 0.9585 |        7.0477  |    14 |
    | MyTrainable_a826b7bc | RUNNING  | 10.234.98.164:31112 | 0.729127  | 0.0748 | 0.1797 |        7.05715 |    14 |
    +----------------------+----------+---------------------+-----------+--------+--------+----------------+-------+

You can use a :ref:`Reporter <tune-reporter-doc>` object to customize the console output.

Uploading Results
-----------------

If an upload directory is provided, Tune will automatically sync results to the given directory, natively supporting standard S3/gsutil commands.

You can customize this to specify arbitrary storages with the ``sync_to_cloud`` argument. This argument is similar to ``sync_to_cloud`` in that it supports strings with the same replacement fields and arbitrary functions.

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer: what would this function look like?  what does the function take in?

Author: GREAT CATCH i'll have to fix this
